In the last lecture we have been talking about the most important features as far as k nearest neighbor
a classifier is concerned.
We have come to the conclusion that somehow we have to measure the distance between the new entity and
all the other items in the data set.
We can do it with the help of the Euclidean distance but what extremely important data does k nearest
neighbor classifier is a lazy learner algorithm which means that it doesn't learn anything.
We just store the training data.
That's why the training is very very fast because there is no training at all but making the predictions
on the other hand is rather slow because we have to calculate the Euclidean distances for every single
item in the data set.
So what's extremely important debt for lazy learner algorithms such as this K nearest neighbor classifier.
We do not build a model at all.
So this is a so called non-parametric learning approach which means that no parameters are to be learned
about the data.
We have been talking about linear regression and we have been talking about logistic regression in the
previous chapters and we have come to the conclusion that the algorithm has to learn the optimal be
the parameters either really greedy in the sand or are we the maximum likelihood method.
So what extremely important to see that for linear regression we have a model we define cost function
which is the mean square error or age X minus Y squared.
So basically we have to calculate the error terms for all the data points in the training data set.
So the mean square error is equal to the sum of these absolute terms.
OK we have to square these values because we are dealing with the mean square error.
OK and then we have to use some optimization algorithm such as a gradient descent in order to find the
minimum value of the cost function.
So Ajax minus Y squared.
Basically this is how we end up with the optimal be the perimeters.
Why is it good.
Because if we know what is optimal B the paramita as we can make further predictions we are able to
use this model on that test dataset.
Okay.
And as far as logistic regression is concerned again we have to use maximum likelihood approach in order
to estimate the optimal values for between zero and between Or if we are dealing with multinomial logistic
regression.
There are other B the parameters we have to know and basically we can use maximum likelihood estimator
where the likelihood function or the log likelihood function and sort of a given optimization problem
in order to end up with the optimal B-D perimeters.
Why is it good if we know the optimal be the perimeters we can assign a given probability to a given
training example.
And this is exactly what we are after here with K nearest neighbor a classifier we dont build a model
at all.
So theres no training at all thats why the training is very fast.
On the other hand making the prediction is rodders slow because we have to calculate the Euclidean distances.
OK so this is the main difference between linear regression logistic regression and KNUS neighbor classifier.
Yet here we do not build a model at all.
So no need to use underlying optimization related algorithms such as gradient descent or maximum likelihood
method because we don't build a model at all.
But on the other hand it is extremely powerful algorithm.
We will see that the accuracy and precision of K nearest neighbor classifier is rodder good.
OK so in the next lecture we are going to talk about how to measure Euclidean distances.
Thanks for watching.